# Brainwave_Matrix_Intern
## Task-1 Amazon Sales Analysis
This repository contains a data-driven analysis of Amazon sales using Python to visualize key insights.

---
# 📌 Task Overview
Exploring the Amazon Sales Dataset follows a structured approach. We begin by cleaning and preparing the data to ensure its accuracy and consistency. After that, we use descriptive statistics to summarize the data, calculating values such as averages and ranges. Next, we create visualizations like charts and graphs to identify patterns and relationships within the data. We also look for outliers—data points that deviate significantly from the norm—and test any hypotheses we may have. To gain deeper insights, we group the data into relevant categories.

---
 **Images Overview:**

• Missing values

•	Missing values percentage

•	Scatter plot

•	Histogram

•	Heatmap

•	Correlation matrix(Pearson)

•	Correlation matrix(Spearson)

                  

---
📂 **Files in the Repository:**

•	Amazon Sales Analysis.ipynb

•	Images.png

•	README.md - Project documentation.

•	Amazon.csv - CSV file of the Dataset

---
🛠️ **Tools & Technologies:**

1. **Pandas**: Data manipulation and analysis

2. **Numpy**: Numerical operations and calculations

3. **Matplotlib**: Data visualization and plotting

4. **Seaborn**: Enhanced data visualization and statistical graphics

5. **Scipy**: Scientific computing and advanced mathematical operations
---
📈 **Key Findings:**

🔯It provides a wealth of information about customer behavior, product trends and market conditions.

🔯By conducting exploratory data analysis (EDA) on this dataset, businesses can gain valuable insights that can help them make better decisions about their 
   products, marketing, and operations.


---
## Twitter Sentiment Analysis

### 📌 Overview
Welcome to the "Twitter Sentiment Analysis" project! This data science project focuses on analyzing and predicting the sentiment of tweets using machine-learning techniques. The primary goal is to classify tweets into positive, negative, or neutral sentiments, providing valuable insights into public opinion and sentiment trends on Twitter.

**Explore the project directly on Google Colab:** [Twitter Sentiment Analysis](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1GjX5aTimLorze58SbGG_85HntNXGzvwa?usp=sharing)


---
### Project Description
Twitter (Now X) sentiment analysis is a crucial task for understanding public opinion and sentiment towards various topics, brands, or events. This project utilizes machine-learning models to classify tweets based on their sentiment polarity, helping businesses, researchers, and individuals gauge public sentiment effectively.


---
### Dataset
The dataset used in this project is the Sentiment140 dataset from Kaggle, which consists of 1.6 million tweets extracted using the Twitter API. Each tweet is labelled with its sentiment polarity (0 for negative, 2 for neutral, and 4 for positive), making it suitable for sentiment analysis tasks.


---
### Models Used
Three different models have been employed in this project for sentiment analysis:

1. **Bernoulli Naive Bayes Classifier:**
   - Bernoulli Naive Bayes is a probabilistic classifier that assumes features are independent binary variables. It's commonly used for text classification tasks.

2. **Support Vector Machine (SVM):**
   - SVM is a powerful supervised learning algorithm that can be used for classification or regression tasks. It's effective for text classification tasks with non-linear decision boundaries.

3. **Logistic Regression:**
   - Logistic Regression is a classic classification algorithm that models the probability of a binary outcome. It's widely used for text classification and sentiment analysis tasks.


---
## Evaluation Metrics

The performance of the sentiment analysis models was evaluated using the following metrics:

- **Accuracy:** Measures the overall correctness of the classification.
- **F1-Score:** Harmonic mean of precision and recall, useful for imbalanced datasets.
- **ROC-AUC Score:** Area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve, which measures the model's ability to distinguish between positive and negative classes.


---
## Usage

To run the project and explore the sentiment analysis models:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/sarthaklambaa/Twitter-Sentiment-Analysis.git
   ```

2. Run the main script or Jupyter Notebook to train and evaluate the models on the Sentiment140 dataset.

3. Analyze the results and predictions generated by each model to gain insights into tweet sentiments.

Feel free to customize and extend the project as needed for your specific use case or dataset.

